Okay, so
let's get into the first exercise.
What you should do if you're
on the main screen over here,
go ahead and click Exercise 00,
Creating a state machine.
And so in this exercise, we're going to be
doing the exact same thing that I showed
you, which is creating a state machine
from scratch and putting it in useReducer.
Again, you could either use
switch case statements or
you could use that Object Notation
that I showed you.
So our state machine is going to have
three states, idle, running and paused.
So idle means the timer
hasn't started yet.
Running means the timer is
currently counting down,
which is not going to work yet
because we haven't added the ticker yet.
That's for a future exercise.
And, we have the paused state, so that
you could pause the timer at any time.
The machine should start in the idle stat
and then when the toggle event happens,
where basically toggling
between running and paused.
So that's what that play
button is going to do here.
We also have a reset button here,
where it's going to allow you to
just start the machine back in idle.
And so
that should happen in the paused state.
those toggle events should be dispatched
when you click this start timer and
pause timer.
You'll see that the buttons
switches between start and pause.
And also if you click this, that should
also do the same thing as that button.
And honestly,
that's where that logic just centralizing
that logic becomes really helpful.
So that instead of copying and pasting
your logic for both this and the button,
you could just dispatch the same events
and that's going to do the same thing.
There's also some restrictions like
only show the pause timer when you're in
the running state.
Obviously, you don't wanna pause
in the already paused timer and
only show the start timer button
when we're either in paused or idle.
You don't wanna show the play
button when it's already playing.
Which sounds like how could anyone
make that mistake but honestly,
at the time of this workshop, there's
a lot of election news sites going on.
And some of the videos have that play
button, where you keep pressing play and
it doesn't go away.
Or even if the video is already playing,
it shows that play button or
it shows the pause button
at the wrong time.
State machines just make you notice
all of these logic problems.
So, yeah, all right?
The exercise material is going
to be in these two files.
We have timer.js.
And you're going to see a lot of
hints on how you should do this just
throughout the file, especially
these comments with the three dots.
That's usually an indication that
you should be doing something there.
And there's also this timer machine file,
which this is going to be that reducer.
So you could create this however you want.
If you wanna use the objects,
there's this timer machine config or
you could use a switch statement.